Hi, everybody.
Earlier this week
was Equal Pay Day.
It marks the extra time
the average woman has
to work into a new year to
earn what
a man earned the year before.
You see, the average woman
who works full-time
in America earns less than a
man - even when she's
in the same profession and
has the same education.
That's wrong.
In 2014, it's an
embarrassment.
Women deserve equal
pay for equal work.
This is an economic issue
that affects all of us.
Women make up about
half our workforce.
And more and more, they're
our families' main breadwinners.
So it's good for everyone
when women
are paid fairly.
That's why, this week, I
took action to prohibit
more businesses from
punishing workers
who discuss their salaries
- because more pay
transparency makes it
easier
to spot pay discrimination.
And I hope more business
leaders will
take up this cause.
But equal pay is just one
part
of an economic agenda for women.
Most lower-wage workers
in America are women.
So I've taken executive
action to require
federal contractors to pay their
federally-funded employees
at least ten dollars
and ten cents an hour.
I ordered a review of our
nation's overtime rules,
to give more workers
the chance to earn
the overtime pay they deserve.
Thanks to the Affordable
Care Act,
tens of millions of women are
now guaranteed free preventive
care like mammograms and
contraceptive care,
and the days when you could
be charged more just
for being a woman are
over for good.
Across the country,
we're bringing Americans
together to help us make
sure that a woman
can have a baby without
sacrificing her job,
or take a day off to care for a sick child
or parent without hitting hardship.
It's time to do away with
workplace policies that
belong in a "Mad Men"
episode,
and give every woman the
opportunity she deserves.
Here's the
problem, though.
On issues that would
benefit millions of women,
Republicans in Congress
have blocked
progress at every turn.
Just this week, Senate
Republicans blocked
the Paycheck Fairness Act,
commonsense legislation
that would help more women
win equal pay
for equal work.
House Republicans won't
vote to raise the minimum
wage or extend
unemployment insurance
for women out of work through
no fault of their own.
The budget they passed
this week would force
deep cuts to investments that
overwhelmingly benefit
women and children - like
Medicaid, food stamps,
and college grants.
And of course, they're
trying to repeal the
Affordable Care Act for
the fiftieth or so time,
which would take away
vital benefits
and protections from
millions of women.
I'm going to keep fighting
to make sure
that doesn't happen.
Because we do better when
our economy grows
for everybody, not just a few.
And when women succeed,
America succeeds.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.